   The great war at the present moment is absorbing all the attention of the world exclusive of everything else. But then I think this war
itself must make serious thinking people turn their attention to the great problem of civilisation. All civilisation begins by the conquest
 of Nature, i.e. by subduing and controlling the terrific physical forces in Nature so that they can do no harm to men. The modern civilisation
 of Europe today has succeeded in the conquest of Nature with a success, it must be admitted, hitherto not attained by any other civilisation.
 But there is in this world a force more terrible even than the terrific physical forces in Nature and that is the passions in the heart of 
 man. The harm which the physical forces of Nature can do to mankind, is nothing compared with the harm which human passions can do. Until 
 therefore this terrible force, ——the human passions——is properly regulated and controlled, there can be, it is evident, not only no civilisation,
 but even no life possible for human beings.
   In the first early and rude stage of society, mankind had to use physical force to subdue and subjugate human passions. Thus hordes of savages
 had to be subjugated by sheer physical force. But as civilisation advances, mankind discovers a force more potent and more effective for subduing
 and controlling human passions than physical force which in the past has been effective in subduing and controlling the human passions in the
 population of Europe, is Christianity. But now this war with the armament preceding it, seems to show that Christianity has become ineffective
 as a moral force. Without an effective moral force to control and restrain human passions, the people of Europe have had again to employ physical
 force to keep civil order. As Carlyle truly says, "Europe is Anarchy plus a constable." The use of physical force to maintain civil order leads to
 militarism. In fact militarism is  necessary in Europe today because of the want of an effective moral force. But militarism leads to war and war
 means destruction and waste. Thus the people of Europe are on the horns of a dilemma. If they do away whth militarism, anarchy will destory their
 civilisation, but if they keep up militarism, their civilisation will collapse through the waste and destruction of war. But Englishmen say that 
 they are determined to put down Prussian militarism and Lord Kitchner believes that he will be able to stamp out Prussian militarism with three
million drilled and armed Englishmen. But then it seems to me when Prussian militarism is thus stamped out, there will then arise another militarism,
——the British militarism which again will have to be stamped out. Thus there seems to be no way of escape out of this vicious circle.
  But is there really no way of escape? Yse, I believe there is. The American Emerson long ago said, "I can easily see the bankruptcy of the vulgar
musket worship, ——though great men be musket worshippers; and it is certain, as God liveth, the gun that does need another gun, the law of love
and justice alone can effect a clean revolution." Now if the people of Europe really want to put down militarism, there is only one way of doing it 
and that is, to use what Emerson calls the gun that does not need another gun, the law of love and justice, ——in fact, moral force, with an effective
moral force, militarism will become unnecessary and disappear of itself. But now, that Christianity has become ineffective as a moral force the 
problem is where are the people of Europe to find this new effective moral force which will make militarism unnessary?
